

--- Article 1 ---
The Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui (abbreviated SKH), also known as the Hong Kong Anglican Church (Episcopal), is the Anglican church in Hong Kong and Macao. It is the 38th Province of the Anglican Communion. It is also one of the major denominations in Hong Kong and the first in the Anglican Communion to ordain a female priest.
The Province of Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui is divided into three dioceses in Hong Kong and one missionary area in Macau. Each diocese is led by a bishop and the missionary area is directly led by the Archbishop.
The primate of Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui holds the title of Archbishop of Hong Kong, and is elected from the diocesan bishops of the province. Andrew Chan is the current Archbishop and Primate and Bishop of Western Kowloon. Timothy Kwok is Bishop of Eastern Kowloon and Matthias Der is Bishop of Hong Kong Island. Peter Douglas Koon is the provincial secretary general. The church has approximately 29,000 members.

Anglican Communion
The Anglican Communion is a global family and a fellowship of churches which trace their roots to the Church of England, with a province being a basic autonomous unit. There are presently 41 independent and self-governing provinces spanning over 160 countries. With well over 100 million members, the Anglican Communion is the third largest church in the world, after the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Churches.
In the Anglican Communion, there is no central governing authority. Churches uphold and proclaim the Catholic and Apostolic faith. The front-line unit of Church is the "parish". Parishes of similar vicinity are then grouped together to form a "diocese". Dioceses sharing similar cultural and national background would unite and form a "province", participating in the Anglican Communion under the leadership and jurisdiction of an archbishop.
The Four Instruments of Unity for the Anglican Communion:

Anglican faith
The Anglican faith is based on the belief that the Bible, the Holy Scriptures of the Old and the New Testaments, "contain[s] all things necessary to salvation". Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui further maintains the ministry of the Church which it has received through the Episcopacy in the three orders of Bishops, Priests, and Deacons.

History and origin
Sheng Kung Hui was founded in British Hong Kong in 1843, following the Treaty of Nanking. The first colonial chaplain was Vincent John Stanton. The first Chinese church, St. Stephen's Church, was founded in 1865. From then onwards, in the course of development of the Anglican Church in Hong Kong and Macao, churches continued to grow and witnessed the establishment of the Diocese of Victoria (Chinese: 維多利亞教區) in 1849 under the See of Canterbury; the establishment of the Kong Yuet Diocese (Chinese: 港粵教區) under the Province of the Chung Hua Sheng Kung Hui (Chinese: 中華聖公會) in 1913, which ran in parallel with the Diocese of Victoria, until it resolved in 1951; and the birth of the Diocese of Hong Kong and Macao (Chinese: 港澳教區) in 1951, which was subsequently completely separated from the national Chung Hua Sheng Kung Hui.
In the 40th Synod of the Diocese held in December 1991, it was resolved that steps were to be taken to expand the Diocese into a province and eventually in 1998, the Province of Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui was established.

Bishops
Diocese of Hong Kong and Macao
Ronald Owen Hall (1951–1966)
Gilbert Baker (1966–1980)
Peter Kwong Kong-kit (1980–1998)

Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui
Archbishop and Primate of Hong Kong
Peter Kwong Kong-kit (1998–2006)
Paul Kwong (2007–2021)
Andrew Chan (2021–present)

Bishop of Hong Kong Island
Peter Kwong Kong-kit (1998–2007)
Paul Kwong (2007–2020)
Matthias Der (2021–present)

Bishop of Western Kowloon
Thomas Soo (1998–2012)
Andrew Chan (2012–present)

Bishop of Eastern Kowloon
Louis Tsui (1998–2013)
Timothy Kwok (2014–present)

Structure
Dioceses and Missionary Area
Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui consists of three dioceses and one missionary area. There is a bishop in each diocese. The dioceses are:

The Diocese of Hong Kong Island (香港島教區)
The Diocese of Eastern Kowloon (東九龍教區)
The Diocese of Western Kowloon (西九龍教區)
(The Diocese of Eastern Kowloon and the Diocese of Western Kowloon are divided by the geographical constituencies of the Legislative Council in the New Territories, and along the Kowloon-Canton Railway in Kowloon and New Kowloon.)
The missionary area is:

The Missionary Area of Macao (澳門傳道地區)

Parishes and churches
General synod
The Provincial General Synod is composed of the House of Bishop, the House of Clegy and the House of Laity. Members come from the Diocese of Hong Kong Island, the Diocese of Eastern Kowloon, the Diocese of Western Kowloon and the Missionary Area of Macao. Under the General Synod, there are different Commissions responsible for different areas of ministry.

Mission and pastoral work
The Church is a community with no boundaries in age, social or ethnic status. Members include Chinese, other Asians and Westerners from all over the world. The worship in Churches features English, Filipino, Cantonese Chinese and Mandarin Chinese.

Pastoral Care
On the parish level, pastoral care is given through fellowships for children, youth, adults, women, elderly and other related groups to cater to the different needs of people of various age groups and background. Retreats, silent meditation, pilgrimage and tours to Israel are often arranged. Caring for the elderly, family counseling service, spiritual support in hospitals, pastoral care in correctional institutes, mission to Seafarers and religious service at the Airport are some of the Church's services.
Religious Education
Religious education of parishes are carried out by Sunday Schools, seminars, disciple training courses and catechism class, among others. The whole Church relies on the Religious Education and Resource Centre to co-ordinate religious education research, provision of religious education curriculum and promotion of religious education. Besides training ordinands, Ming Hua Theological College also provides multi-faceted theological, spiritual and biblical studies for laity.

Social service
Social service of the Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui started in mid 18th Century. At present, many social service organizations and social service models in Hong Kong were those initiated and promoted by the Church. Services provided by the Church are multi-faceted, including services for family and child-care, children and youth, the elderly, rehabilitation service, community development service and other supportive services. There are more than 230 units providing social service run by Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui at present.
In January 2010, the Inland Revenue Department began to pursue the SKH for unpaid taxes in the amount of HK$180 million, relating to a parcel of land in Tai Po which originally housed an orphanage. In 1993, after the closure of the orphanage, the SKH let Cheung Kong Holdings develop luxury apartments on the site, and were estimated to have made profits of HK$450 million in cash, in addition to receiving 120 apartments for free.

Social issues
On women's ordination, the church was the first in the Anglican Communion to ordain women to the priesthood: Florence Li Tim-Oi in 1944 and another in 1971. Churches in Hong Kong and "Christian clerics are often divided on topics such as... gay rights". In 2007, the former primate, Archbishop Peter Kwong, stated that "Anglicanism is inclusive...so why shouldn't we find a common ground on homosexuality?". Beginning in 2013, some leaders in the Hong Kong Anglican Church endorsed social and civil rights legislation under the auspice of providing protection for LGBT citizens from employment and other varieties of discrimination. The Equal Opportunity Commission chair, York Chow Yat-ngok, who is Anglican, said that gay "people should not be discriminated against" regardless of religious views. Later, in 2015, Peter Douglas Koon, the Anglican province's secretary general, denounced conservative schools' policies against LGBT relationships as discrimination and reassured the public that Anglican educational institutions would welcome LGBT faculty and students.

Education
There are altogether 33 secondary schools sponsored by Sheng Kung Hui in the territory, amongst which namely:

Primary schools
Sheng Kung Hui Chu Oi Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui Chu Oi Primary School (Lei Muk Shue)
Sheng Kung Hui Ho Chak Wan Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui Kei Oi Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui Tsing Yi Estate Ho Chak Wan Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui Tsing Yi Chu Yan Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui Holy Spirit Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui MOS Holy Spirit Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui Holy Trinity Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui St Clement's Primary School
Sheng Kung Hui St. Peter's Primary School

Secondary schools
Diocesan Boys' School
Diocesan Girls' School
Heep Yunn School
Holy Trinity Church Secondary School
Lam Woo Memorial Secondary School
Chan Young Secondary School
Tang Shiu Kin Secondary School
St. Mark's School
Bishop Mok Sau Tseng Secondary School
St. Paul's Co-educational College
St. Paul's College
St. Stephen's College
St. Stephen's Girls' College

Education reform controversy
Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui, with its sponsored primary and secondary schools, were embroiled in the School-Based Management Policy controversy with the government in 2002, five years after the handover.

SKH Ming Hua Theological College
Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui runs its own theological college: Ming Hua Theological College, named after Bishop Ronald Owen Hall.
Ming Hua College was established in 1947 by Bishop R.O. Hall in what was then the Church of England’s Diocese of Victoria. It was at first dedicated to the education of Chinese lay Christians, particularly from disadvantaged backgrounds.
In 1996, now part of the Diocese of Hong Kong and Macao, the College was renamed Sheng Kung Hui ("Holy Catholic Church") Ming Hua Theological College and given the responsibility of training priests for full-time ministry in the Church. This work continues today as part of the Anglican Province of Hong Kong and Macao, with Ming Hua being the Provincial training centre for clergy and laity.

See also
Acts of Supremacy
English Reformation
Dissolution of the Monasteries
Ritualism in the Church of England
Apostolicae curae
Chung Hua Sheng Kung Hui
Christianity in Hong Kong
Roman Catholic Diocese of Hong Kong

References
External links

Official website
SKH Ming Hua Theological College
SKH Religious Education Resource Center
Anglican Communion
Hong Kong Sheng Kung Hui Hong Kong Baptist University Library Preservation for the Documentation of Chinese Christianity


--- Article 2 ---
Hrvatski nogometni klub Šibenik (English: Croatian Football Club Šibenik), better known as HNK Šibenik or simply Šibenik (pronounced [ʃîbeniːk]), is a Croatian professional football club based in Šibenik. It competes in the SuperSport HNL, the top flight of Croatian football and plays their home matches at the Stadion Šubićevac, which has a capacity of 3,970.

History
The club was formed in 1932 under the name Radničko sportsko društvo Šibenik (Workers' Sport Association Šibenik). The first president, Dr Martin Čičin-Šain, was only appointed to this role during the first board meeting, which was held in August 1933. They played in a stadium in the town area of Crnica, next to the La Dalmatienne factory. The playing field was officially opened on 31 May 1936. The first matches played were part of a 1936 tournament between Šibenik, Osvit, Split and AŠK. Around the same time the first registered football club in Šibenik was also formed. This club was called Osvit and it was responsible for the construction of Šubićevac Stadium.
The club played its first official league match in 1946 under the name FD Šibenik and the very next year it was crowned the champion of the Dalmatia region. The club's new home ground was opened on 1 May 1948 and bore the name of "the people's hero", Rade Končar. In the 1950–51 season, Šibenik finished top of the Croatian Republic League and gained promotion to the Yugoslav Second League for the first time in its history. However, they were relegated immediately and it was not until 1954–55 that they returned to the second division. In 1957 the club made it to the semi-final of the Yugoslav Cup.
In 1983 Šibenik made it back to the Yugoslav Second League, where they played in the West Division, composed from 18 clubs from Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and SAP Vojvodina. In their first season (1983–84) they finished fourth, while in the 1984–85 season they came close second, only three points behind the champion Čelik Zenica, thus falling short of winning promotion to the Yugoslav First League. This was their best result in the Yugoslav Second League ever. After holding the middle position of the table for the next couple of seasons, Šibenik finished fifth in the 1987–88 season. They defended their fifth place in the 1988–89 season, the first Yugoslav Second League season which featured a unified format instead of two divisions (West and East), as well as in the 1989–90 season.
Šibenik played in the Croatian First League for twelve consecutive seasons, from 1992 until 2003. In 2006 the club finished first in the Croatian Second League's southern division and returned to the first league. In the 2009–10 season, Šibenik finished fourth in domestic league, which was their best result ever, and thus qualified for the 2010–11 UEFA Europa League first qualifying round for the first time in its history. They were eliminated in the second qualifying round by Anorthosis Famagusta 2–3 on aggregate.
In the 2011–12 season, the club finished fourteenth and were relegated to the second league. In the following season, Šibenik finished fourth but due to financial difficulties, they were once again relegated to the third league. In the 2013–14 season, Šibenik finished in second place with their marksman Miro Slavica scoring 30 goals to take out the league's top goalscorer award, but failed to lead his side to promotion.
At the end of the 2014–15 season, Šibenik gained promotion to the second league, topping the third league – south. Mirko Labrović took over as manager in 2015. They finished close second to Cibalia in the 2015–16 season, failing to beat them in the last match of the season and thus failing to win direct promotion to the first tier by only one point. Šibenik played against Istra 1961 in the relegation play-offs on 29 May and 1 June 2016. Both matches ended 1–1 and Šibenik lost the play-off after penalty shootout.
In the 2018–19 season, Šibenik finished a close second to Varaždin, and again played relegation play-offs over Istra 1961. The first match played in Šibenik ended 1–1 but in the second match played on Stadion Aldo Drosina, Istra beat them by a scoreline of 0–2. On 6 May 2020, by a decision of the Croatian Football Federation to suspend the 2019–20 Croatian Second League season, Šibenik was promoted to the first tier after eight seasons.

Honours
Yugoslav Third League (South):
Winners (3): 1950–51, 1975–76, 1982–83
Croatian Second Football League / First Football League:
Winners (3): 2005–06, 2019–20, 2023–24
Runners-up (2): 2015–16, 2018–19
Croatian Cup:
Runners-up (2): 2009–10, 2022–23

Recent seasons
Key

 League: P = Matches played; W = Matches won; D = Matches drawn; L = Matches lost; F = Goals for; A = Goals against; Pts = Points won; Pos = Final position;
 Cup: R1 = First round; R2 = Round of 16; QF = Quarter-final; SF = Semi-final; RU = Runner-up; W = Competition won;

All-time record appearances
All-time top scorers Hnk Šibenik
European record
Summary
Last updated on 10 September 2010.Pld = Matches played; W = Matches won; D = Matches drawn; L = Matches lost; GF = Goals for; GA = Goals against

By season
Players
Current squad
As of 12 March 2025

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

Dual registration
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

Out on loan
Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

Personnel
Coaching staff
As of 28.11.2024

Notable players
The following HNK Šibenik players have been capped at full international level. Years in brackets indicate their spells at the club.

Coaching history
References
External links

Official website  (in Croatian)
HNK Šibenik profile at UEFA.com
HNK Šibenik profile at Sportnet.hr (in Croatian)
HNK Šibenik profile at Nogometni magazin (in Croatian)


--- Article 3 ---
The Ely LDS Stake Tabernacle was built by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) in 1927-1928 as a church and community center in Ely, Nevada. The two-story Colonial Revival building is now owned by White Pine County and is used as a community meeting hall. The contractor for the project was Joseph Don Carlos Young, grandson of Brigham Young.
The stake tabernacle is an unusual example of Colonial Revival design in Nevada, where the style was never widely used. It is also notable as an early example of the expansion of the LDS Church into neighboring states. The LDS church first was established in Ely in 1915. In 1926 the Ely Ward was established. The tabernacle was completed in 1928, containing a 600-seat auditorium, meeting space and classrooms. The facility was replaced by a new meetinghouse in 1957.


--- Article 4 ---
The Arima Line (神戸電鉄有馬線, Kōbe Dentetsu Arima-sen) is a commuter railway line in Kobe, Japan operated by Kobe Electric Railway. It connects central Kobe with its northern suburbs in Kita-ku and Arima Onsen.
The line is 22.9 kilometres (14.2 mi) long, extending from Minatogawa in Hyogo-ku to Arima Onsen in Kita-ku.
Service is divided at Arimaguchi, where most trains from Shinkaichi continue on the Sanda Line, with short-run trains operating between Arimaguchi and Arima Onsen, the line terminus.

History
The entire line opened in 1928, 1,067 mm (3 ft 6 in) gauge and electrified at 1500 VDC.
The Mitogawa - Arimaguchi section was duplicated between 1965 and 1966.

Former connecting lines
Arima Onsen station - The 12 km (7.5 mi) line to Sanda on the Fukuchiyama Line was operated by the Arima Railway Company from 1915 to 1943.

Stations
S = stop
↑ = one direction only
| = pass

Abolished stations
Shin-yu Yaba (神有耶馬) - located between Hiyodorigoe and Suzurandai, abolished on February 15, 1939.
Shin-Arima (新有馬) - located between Arimaguchi and Arima Onsen, suspended on June 15, 1965, and abolished on February 28, 2013.

References

This article incorporates material from the corresponding article in the Japanese Wikipedia


--- Article 5 ---
George Dawson (10 May 1961 – 7 May 2007) was a Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) politician who was a Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly (MLA) for East Antrim from 2003 to 2007.

Background
Dawson was first elected to the Northern Ireland Assembly for East Antrim at the 2003 election. He died shortly after being re-elected to the Assembly in 2007, following a short battle with cancer. He was seen as a potential member of the power-sharing executive of the first minister, the DUP leader Ian Paisley, whose evangelical Protestant and strong unionist beliefs he shared.
Dawson was a founder in 1998, and was until his death the chairman, of the Caleb Foundation, a Christian fundamentalist pressure group. He was also Grand Master of the Independent Orange Order and Treasurer of the Evangelical Protestant Society.

References
External links
georgedawson.org (archived)


--- Article 1 ---
America the Beautiful is a documentary television series dedicated to showcase North America's natural diversity and extreme conditions. The series is narrated by Michael B. Jordan and premiered on Disney+ on July 4, 2022, as a Disney+ Original, under the National Geographic banner. The series was removed from Disney+ on May 26, 2023.

Production
National Geographic produced the series as a streaming exclusive for Disney. Before the showed premiered in July 2022, Disney announced that they would be working with V/SPEED Films on the series, who supplied footage that was captured using cinema-grade cameras mounted to fighter jets, which is a first for the industry. Joe Trapanese composed the score of the documentary.

Episodes
Release
The series was released on July 4, 2022, coinciding with Independence Day in the United States. It consists of six episodes.

Reception
Critical response
The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 100% approval rating with an average rating of 7.90/10, based on 5 critic reviews. Metacritic gave the series a weighted average score of 84 out of 100 based on 4 critic reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
Joel Keller of Decider wrote, "Despite the series' scattershot focus, America The Beautiful has more than enough spectacular footage to satisfy fans of nature docuseries." John Anderson of The Wall Street Journal said, "It's a feel-good physical exam of the third largest and "most diverse" continent, environmentally speaking, and while there's no voice saying, "I'm North America and I approve this message," if a place could run for president, this show could be the campaign ad."
Stephanie Morgan of Common Sense Media gave America the Beautiful a grade of 4 out of 5 stars, praised the presence of educational value, and complimented the positive messages and role models, writing, "Nature footage and storytelling like nothing seen before." Aimee Mills of Collider included America the Beautiful in their "10 Best Wildlife Documentaries On Disney+ Right Now" list, saying, "With stunning shots of nature at its finest, it's a great new series to get stuck into if you're in the mood for beautiful landscape visuals from the Arctic to the deep South."


--- Article 2 ---
Now and Forever is the 33rd album by Lettermen. It is a studio album produced by Ed Cobb, David D. Cavanaugh, and Jim Pike, and released in 1974 by Capitol Records. Now and Forever is the group's first album with original songs. For the release of the album, the group changed their name from "The Lettermen" to "Lettermen".
Two songs were released as singles; a medley of “Touch Me in the Morning/The Way We Were” which reached number 31 on the U.S. Adult Contemporary chart and number 10 on the Canadian Adult Contemporary chart, and "Eastward" which reached #16 on the Billboard Adult Contemporary chart.

Concept and development
After 13 years of success with covers and medleys of hit songs, the Lettermen sought new and original songs for their next album, in an effort not to appear as a cover band. Their manager, Jess Rand, and staffer Billy Delbert looked for new material. Included in the album are "Touch Me in the Morning", "Maria", and "Eres Tu", which reached No. 1 on the Cash Box charts in 1974.
In 1968, Bob Engemann of the Lettermen heard the Abilene Christian College group the ACCents, led by lead vocalist Bill Hughes, while they were on a tour of the Southeast United States. Engemann asked for a tape of their songs, which led to the recording of Eastward, for the Now and Forever album.

Critical reception
In a Cashbox album review, the album was called an "up to date collection" saying "given a super treatment by the trio", regarding it as "the best music around". In Billboard, Elliot Tiegel opined that the group's "distinct soft vocal blend" is its "calling card," remarking that the move to "contemporize its sound have not hurt its artistic ability."
Jack Burke wrote for La Crosse Tribune that the album and group are "always on target... and good songs, too." Bill E. Burk of the Memphis Press-Scimitar wrote that the Lettermen have "the easiest voices to listen to" and hearing the Now and Forever "brings on a surging desire to shut your eyes and let the words and the music just penetrate."

Track listing
Personnel
Vocals by The Lettermen
Vocals, soloist: Jim Pike (track: A4)
Produced by Ed Cobb, David D. Cavanaugh, and Jim Pike

References
External links
Now and Forever at Discogs (list of releases)


--- Article 3 ---
The Proteus Operation is a science fiction alternate history novel written by James P. Hogan. The plot focuses on an Anglo-American team of soldiers and civilians sent back in time from the Nazi-dominated world of 1975
to prevent an Axis victory in World War II that was engineered by more advanced time travelers from the 21st century.
Historical figures in the book include Isaac Asimov, Wilhelm Canaris, Winston Churchill, Duff Cooper, Anthony Eden, Albert Einstein, Enrico Fermi, Reinhard Heydrich, Adolf Hitler, Heinrich Himmler, John F. Kennedy, Frederick Lindemann, George Pegram, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Leo Szilard, and Edward Teller. Of these, only Asimov and Teller were still alive when the novel was published in 1985.

Plot
Originally, the First World War was a complete wake-up call for the human race, leading to greater internationalism and a "Never Again" spirit towards war that would eventually wear away the differences between the various power-blocs. By the 2020s, a global League of Nations oversees a planet totally at peace. The fledgling Nazi Party, in this 'original' timeline, simply faded out after the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch.
Many in the modern aristocracy, corporate dynasties, and others feel they have lost out because of the social transformations enabled by decades of peace and co-operation. This group comes up with a plan to build a functional "time machine" and change history for their benefit. Their scheme is to go back as far as they can (roughly a century, to the very early 1920s) and mentor the fledgling Nazi Party. They regard the Nazis as the perfect tool for destroying the Soviet Union and establishing an elitist tyranny with which they can live the lives of luxury and entitlement they believe have been stolen from them. This 'Uptime' initiative sends 21st century advisors, armament, and nuclear weapons to support Adolf Hitler.
The Hitler that they seek to advise soon develops other plans. Learning about the original history from his time traveling advisors, Hitler uses these lessons to ensure that Western Europe falls swiftly, followed by dropping a few of the Uptime nuclear weapons to wipe out the Soviet Union. He then destroys his end of the "time conduit" and declares independence from his former sponsors. By the 1970s, Nazi Germany and the Empire of Japan have conquered everything other than North America, Australasia, and parts of South America. Africa has suffered an enormous genocide every bit as complete as the one inflicted upon the Jews, and the Axis powers stand poised in 1975 to start a final war that the United States is bound to lose, given the military power of Nazi Germany.
An organization in this altered 1975 discovers the secret behind the Nazi successes of the previous decades. The group decides that it will build its own time machine to go back and stop the present nightmare of Nazi world domination. This 1975 time machine is not as advanced or powerful as the original 2020s machine, so they can only open a gate to 1939. The plan is to establish a military alliance between the 1975 America of President John F. Kennedy and the 1939 America of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The team starts noticing that events they had no hand in are different (such as the Joe Louis versus John Henry Lewis fight and the death of Pope Pius XI) and with Einstein's help realize that all possible outcomes already exist and all time travel does is take you to one of these other branches.
Realizing why things have gone wrong, it is up to the 1975 Uptime agents, cut off in 1939, to keep the western Allies, including the United Kingdom and the United States in the fight, while working to close off Hitler's gateway to the alternate 2020s before he gets his atomic bomb and missile advantage.
In the end, they succeed, and this second "alternate timeline" they create turns out to be our own world.  They also realize that the United States of their own time knew they couldn't really change their present and was in reality planning to escape to the reality they would create just as the people backing Hitler had planned to do.  To prevent their United States or Nazi Germany from invading our world they have the gate destroyed.

See also
Axis victory in World War II (an extensive list of other Wikipedia articles regarding works of Nazi Germany/Axis/World War II alternate history)

References
External links
The Proteus Operation at the author's official website


--- Article 4 ---
James Cuthbert (June 4, 1769 – March 5, 1849) was a seigneur and political figure in Lower Canada.
He was born at Berthier in 1769, the son of seigneur James Cuthbert, and studied at the English College at Douai, France. He served in the 60th Regiment of the British Army, becoming lieutenant in 1797. Cuthbert inherited the seigneury of Berthier from his father in 1798. He was named justice of the peace for Trois-Rivières district in 1808. He served in the local militia, becoming lieutenant-colonel. He was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada for Warwick in 1796 and served until 1811, when he was named to the Legislative Council. Cuthbert had run unsuccessfully for the same seat in the legislative assembly in 1792. At that time, he tried unsuccessfully to have the election of Pierre-Paul Margane de Lavaltrie overturned because Lavaltrie was not a British subject. In 1802, Cuthbert married Marie-Claire, the daughter of judge John Fraser. He married his cousin Mary-Louise-Amable Cairns in 1814. Cuthbert was named to the Special Council that governed the province after the Lower Canada Rebellion.
He was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1822. During his life he owned 3 slaves in Canada.
He died at his manor at Berthier in 1849.
His son Edward Octavian became a member of the Canadian House of Commons. His brother Ross also represented Warwick in the legislative assembly.

References
External links
"Biography". Dictionnaire des parlementaires du Québec de 1792 à nos jours (in French). National Assembly of Quebec.


--- Article 5 ---
Xanthe Terra is a large area on Mars, centered just north of the Martian equator. Its coordinates are 3°N 312°E and its diameter is
1867.65 km. Its name means "golden-yellow land."  It is in the Lunae Palus quadrangle, the Coprates quadrangle,  the Margaritifer Sinus quadrangle, and the Oxia Palus quadrangle.
Ravi Vallis, Aromatum Chaos, Ophir, Ganges Chasma, Nanedi Valles, Shalbatana Vallis, Orson Welles Crater, Mutch Crater, and  Da Vinci Crater are some major features in Xanthe Terra.
Images from Mars Express, Mars Global Surveyor, and the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter have revealed ancient river valleys and deltas. The deltas show many thin layers just as deltas on Earth. Scientists speculate that features in Xanthe Terra show evidence of precipitation on early Mars.

References
External links
NASA Astronomy Picture of the Day: Shadow of Phobos (5 November 1999) - the MOC photo took it far above Xanthe Terra


--- Article 1 ---
Calvin Henry Howard (March 24, 1911 – September 10, 1993) was an American cartoon story artist, animator and director mostly remembered for his work at Walter Lantz Productions and Warner Bros. Cartoons. He was also the voice actor of Gabby Goat in Get Rich Quick Porky and Meathead Dog in Screwball Squirrel.

Career
In the late 1920s, Howard became a story man and animator for Walter Lantz Productions, then Walt Disney Animation in 1929. During his career, he worked for several pioneer animators besides Lantz and Disney, including Max Fleischer and Ub Iwerks. From 1930 to 1933, Howard served as a story man for Iwerks and then Lantz.
In 1938, Howard left Warner Bros. Cartoons with his friend Tedd Pierce to work for Fleischer Studios in Miami, and served as the live-action model for Prince David in Fleischer's Gulliver's Travels. In the 1940s, Howard moved to a different studio. He left Fleischer for the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer cartoon studio in 1942, where he served as an uncredited writer for Tom and Jerry. He was fired by Fred Quimby, after discovering that he brought alcohol to the ink and paint department during the Christmas holiday. Howard would move to Screen Gems, and later returned to Warner Bros 1949.
At 1974, Howard returned to Disney as a story artist. In 1949 Cal Howard moved from California to New York City, to work on NBC's Broadway Open House and Your Show of Shows. When Broadway Open House ended he was hired by Pat Weaver to be an associate producer and writer for the development of NBC's Today Show. He left NBC early in 1952 to return to California and work with Ralph Edwards. In the 1960s he returned to cartoon work, until his retirement. Cal Howard worked over seven animation studios in his lifetime and finally received the Annie Award in 1980 for lifetime achievement. He also served on the advisory board of the National Student Film Institute.

References
External links
Cal Howard at IMDb


--- Article 2 ---
Departure of King Wilhelm I for the Army, July 31, 1870 is an oil on canvas painting by German artist Adolph Menzel, created in 1871.  It depicts a scene that takes place in the avenue Unter den Linden, in Berlin, where a crowd is paying tribute to King Wilhelm I of Prussia, as he passes in an open carriage, on his way to the Franco-Prussian War, who had started two weeks earlier. The painting is part of the collection of the Alte Nationalgalerie, in Berlin, since 1881.

History
In the summer of 1870, Menzel was on vacation in Switzerland, which he cut short after the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War. According to tradition, he was sitting in a restaurant on the first floor of the Linden in Berlin on July 31, 1870 and was thus able to witness the king's departure for the army. Menzel wrote that he did the painting with his left hand, as for example those from his series about Frederick II. Significantly, Menzel, originally left-handed, had learned the ability to work equally well with both hands. For reasons of lighting in the composition, he chose the right hand for the preliminary drawing and the left hand for the painterly part. Max Jordan assumed the painter's position to be on the south side of the Linden near the Russian Embassy, not far from the Brandenburg Gate. But the neo-baroque facades on the right do not match. This then-modern type of ornate architecture was under construction on Friedrichstrasse. At that time, a late-classical style prevailed on Unter den Linden. Elsewhere it is said that Menzel reported that “on July 31, 1870 he was on his way to the hairdresser’s when he suddenly saw the king’s carriage on Unter den Linden. The farewell waves and various shouts would have made it clear to him that Wilhelm was about to leave the capital in order to travel to the troops marching up on the Rhine."
Menzel made several sketches for this painting, which are in various museums. The title of the painting was initially Unter den Linden in Berlin in the afternoon of July 31, 1870 or The Linden in Berlin in the afternoon of July 31, 1870, which was used in the first exhibitions; later this title was dropped.

Description
In this painting, Menzel depicts the boulevard Unter den Linden, in Berlin, in a strongly perspective composition. A huge crowd cheers the Prussian King Wilhelm I, who is sitting next to his wife in a carriage and is heading towards the Brandenburg Gate to reach the Berlin Potsdamer Bahnhof. Wilhelm traveled to the theater of war as commander-in-chief of the armies of the North German Confederation and the southern German states, whose deployment across the Rhine was almost complete. The Berlin Palace is in the background of the painting, but the other royal buildings, such as the royal operas don't appear at all. The tower of the recently completed Red Town Hall, on the other hand, is painted more clearly, which points to the increasing importance of the bourgeoisie after the war had been won (Menzel completed the painting in 1871 after the war). Both the shadowy castle and the town hall are the only buildings that can be clearly identified. The bourgeois facades on the right edge of the picture, on the other hand, are fictitious and appear oversized in their almost vertical perspective cornice line due to the strong view from below. With her neo-baroque decorations, it could be a depiction of an in the foreground; these building facades represent the prosperity of the self-celebrating bourgeoisie in a time of economic upswing.
Apparently, a strong gust of wind is blowing through the street, swirling the patriotic flag decorations. The flags on Linden-Boulevard present not only the intertwined federal flags but also the black and white Prussian flags, but these are hardly swirled. A special feature is the easily recognizable flag of the Red Cross, which is located almost in the vanishing point of the painting. Here Menzel refers to the victims of wars, which were always important to him. Some of his drawings and watercolors deal with them.
Amidst the crowd's obedient homage, cheers and cheering gestures, the monarch's white-lined carriage provides a stark contrast that draws the viewer's attention. The king salutes with his right hand on his spiked helmet, while in the real scene he was wearing a simple "traveller's hat"; his wife Augusta fights back the tears and holds a handkerchief in front of her face. Some figures turn away from the king and are busy with other things, some are clearly identifiable. The buyer of the painting, the banker and friend of Menzel, Magnus Herrmann, is said to be on the back balcony with his wife. Herrmann's daughter Clara and her husband, the painter Albert Hertel, can also be seen in the front right. The man in the foreground, who has his back turned to the events, wears a conspicuously light-colored hat and appears to be drawing something on a piece of paper, he is believed by the historian Susanne Drexler to be a self-portrait of Menzel. Menzel's historical paintings often contain a humorous, genre-like component. In this case, it is the newsboy who is baring his teeth at the dog.


--- Article 3 ---
AaB is an association football club from Aalborg, Denmark. The team has participated in four seasons of the UEFA Champions League, eight seasons of the UEFA Cup and Europa League, three seasons of the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, and four seasons of the UEFA Intertoto Cup.

Key
Statistics
Overview
As of 26 February 2015

Matches
As of 26 February 2015

Notes
Note 1: Dynamo Kyiv won their tie against AaB, but, in their first group game against Panathinaikos, they were accused of a failed attempt to bribe referee Antonio López Nieto to get a win. Despite an appeal, they were thrown out of the competition by UEFA and were banned for the subsequent two years. AaB replaced them in the group stage. Dynamo's ban was eventually reduced to just one (current) season.

Record by country of opposition
As of 26 February 2015

Additional official appearances
Before the Intertoto Cup was taken over by UEFA in 1995, a number of tournaments were held with AaB taking part in five of them. These matches are considered official. In addition to those matches, AaB also qualified for one season of the Royal League, an official club competition for Scandinavian teams.

Matches
As of 16 February 2006


--- Article 4 ---
This is about the 2001 game for Game Boy Advance. For the series, see Fire Pro Wrestling.

Fire Pro Wrestling (released in Japan as Fire Pro Wrestling A (ファイヤープロレスリング A, Faiyā Puro Resuringu A)) is a professional wrestling video game in the Fire Pro Wrestling series and was the first Fire Pro game to receive an official English translation and the first to be released on a portable system rather than a console. A direct sequel, Fire Pro Wrestling 2, was released in 2002.

Gameplay
As with other games in the series, Fire Pro Wrestling is not licensed by any major professional wrestling promotions, instead using likenesses of existing wrestlers with fake names; for an example, the wrestler The Bionic Man Steve Majors is a fictionalized version of the WWE wrestler Stone Cold Steve Austin, or The Wraith Mystery Man being a fictionalized version of (at the time) World Championship Wrestling wrestler Rey Mysterio. As with Fire Pro games, MMA is featured in the game and federations like Pride and the Ultimate Fighting Championship feature with fighters. The game features over a hundred different characters.
Fire Pro Wrestling makes the player play with strategy. The games use the A and B buttons for striking and grappling.
The game features a variety of different modes, such as tournaments and leagues that task the player with winning bracket-style competitions against up to 15 and 63 opponents, respectively. There is also exhibition modes, allowing player to tweak rules and music, and also a robust create-a-wrestler mode, which allows players to build a character from more than 1,200 different techniques and hundreds of body parts. Most unique to Fire Pro Wrestling is the game's audience mode, where your goal is not necessarily to win, but to please the crowd by breaking out of pinfall attempts at the last second, defeating opponents after a finisher, or taunting your opponent. Sucsuss frequently depends on which league you align yourself with; for an example, the luchador-styled league will gain greater audience reception from performing high-flying, more athletic moves.

Release
The game was a launch title for the Game Boy Advance for Japan.

Reception
The game received "favorable" reviews, earning an average score of 80 based on 10 critic reviews, according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.
Reviewing the game for GameSpot, Gerald Villoria spoke positively of the game, describing it as having "made the transition from Japan to the USA extremely well", praising its 'create a wrestler' system and describing the controls as "absolutely flawless". He also praised the game for its wide variety of modes, particularly its audience match mode.
However, NextGen gave a more mixed review to the game, saying that the game's difficulty would make it inaccessible for the novices. In Japan, Famitsu gave it a score of 27 out of 40. Bad Hare of GamePro said, "fans would be wise to cut Fire Pro Wrestling some slack in the name of depth. If you like old-school smackdowns, get in the ring!" Nintendo Power was far more critical of the title, noting it as having "choppy animation and sluggish controls", and specifically criticized the graphics, describing them as "graphically underwhelming" and negatively describing the game "looks and feels like it should be for the GBC rather than the GBA".

Notes
References
External links
Fire Pro Wrestling at MobyGames


--- Article 5 ---
Raymond Cruz (born September 10, 1964) is an American actor, best known for his starring role as Detective Julio Sanchez in the series The Closer and its spinoff Major Crimes, as well as his recurring role as drug lord Tuco Salamanca in the crime drama Breaking Bad and its prequel series Better Call Saul.

Early life
Cruz, who is of Mexican descent, grew up in East Los Angeles, California, in a neighborhood that regularly saw gang activity, and had relatives in such street gangs as Maravilla and Barrio South Gate. In an interview with The Daily Beast, Cruz stated he witnessed someone shot in front of him when he was 12 years old, noting that "his brains came out the back of his head." For his portrayal of Tuco Salamanca, he was able to relate to his experiences witnessing people who were high on meth.
Cruz has said that becoming interested in American literature early in life helped him avoid joining such gangs himself.  His favorite novel is Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird. Cruz attended 3 high schools after being expelled for writing editorials on the newspaper that caused him to be late to class as well as being considered inappropriate. He attended East Los Angeles College.

Career
Cruz's film roles include sniper Ding Chavez in Clear and Present Danger, Hector in Out For Justice, Tom Berenger's second-in-command Joey Six in The Substitute, U.S. Marine Sergeant Rojas in The Rock, as Jesus in From Dusk Till Dawn 2: Texas Blood Money, USM Private Vincent DiStephano in Alien Resurrection, and Ramirez in Under Siege. He appeared as Chuey, a gang member from the Vatos Locos, in the gang film Blood In Blood Out.
In 2005, he played Chino in Havoc. He appeared in Gremlins 2: The New Batch, credited as "The Messenger," and in Training Day as a gang member named Sniper. He played a Los Angeles firefighter in Collateral Damage. He had guest roles in the Star Trek: Deep Space Nine episode "The Siege of AR-558", The X-Files episode "El Mundo Gira", and the second season of 24. He also made an appearance as the father of a murdered girl in CSI. He played Det Julio Sanchez for the entire seven season run of The Closer and continued in that role for all six seasons of the spin-off Major Crimes.
Cruz performed the well-known role of Tuco Salamanca, a sadistic and psychotic meth dealer in Breaking Bad in 2008 and 2009, a role he reprised in 2015-16 during the first two seasons of the Breaking Bad prequel spin-off, Better Call Saul.
He had a recurring role as Paco on My Name Is Earl, and as Alejandro Perez on Nip/Tuck.

Personal life
Cruz is married to fellow actress Simi Mehta with whom he co-starred on The X-Files in the episode "El Mundo Gira".

Filmography
Film
Television
References
External links

Raymond Cruz at IMDb


--- Article 1 ---
Recover, Vol. 1 is an extended play by Amy Lee, released on February 19, 2016. It features four cover songs performed by Lee.

Background
During a radio interview in July 2015, Lee said that she had been recording cover songs and expressed an interest in releasing them online. On October 27, 2015, she released the first song from the collection with Portishead's 1994 song "It's A Fire", followed by U2's 1987 song "With or Without You" on November 10, 2015, Led Zeppelin's 1971 song "Going to California" on December 1, 2015, and Chris Isaak's 1996 song "Baby Did a Bad, Bad Thing" on December 15, 2015. They are compiled on Recover, Vol. 1. The cover songs are accompanied by music videos directed by Eric Ryan Anderson. Lee released a statement about the EP on her official Facebook profile, writing,

"Making these covers has been a really satisfying outlet for me lately. I get to play with music I already love and know so well, and instead of just singing my own parts over the speakers (like I've done for years with some of these!), I’m getting inside it. You asked for it, so I'm putting the first 4 on an EP for sale on iTunes."

Track listing


--- Article 2 ---
This is a list of works by Harlan Ellison (1934–2018). It includes his literary output, screenplays and teleplays, voiceover work, and other fields of endeavor.

Novels and novellas
Web of the City (1958; originally published as Rumble)
The Man with Nine Lives (1960; revised and reprinted in 2011 under the author's preferred title The Sound of a Scythe)
Spider Kiss (1961; originally published as Rockabilly)
Doomsman (1967; re-issued under the author's preferred title Way of an Assassin in the collection Rough Beasts)
A Boy and His Dog (1969; made into a film)
The Starlost #1: Phoenix Without Ashes (1975; adaptation by Edward Bryant of Ellison's TV pilot script)
All the Lies That Are My Life (1980; later included in the author's 1980 collection Shatterday)
Run for the Stars (1991; a 1957 novella here republished in a preferred text edition as part of a Tor Double)
Mefisto in Onyx (1993; later included in the author's 1997 collection Slippage)
Blood's a Rover (2018, Subterranean Press; a "fix-up" novel, consisting of "Eggsucker" and "Run Spot, Run", two short stories, as well as A Boy and His Dog and an unproduced teleplay from the 1970s, entitled "Blood's a Rover")

Short story collections
The Deadly Streets (1958)
Sex Gang (1959) (as by Paul Merchant)
A Touch of Infinity (1960)
Children of the Streets (1961) (originally published as The Juvies)
Gentleman Junkie and Other Stories of the Hung-Up Generation (1961)
Ellison Wonderland (1962) (also published as Earthman, Go Home!) Ellison calls his home in Sherman Oaks, California "Ellison Wonderland."
Paingod and Other Delusions (1965)
I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream (1967)
From the Land of Fear (1967)
Love Ain't Nothing But Sex Misspelled (1968)
The Beast that Shouted Love at the Heart of the World (1969)
Over the Edge (1970)
Partners in Wonder (1971) (collaborations with 14 other writers)
Approaching Oblivion (1974)
Deathbird Stories (1975)
No Doors, No Windows (1975)
Strange Wine (1978)
Shatterday (1980) (reissued 2007 by Edgeworks Abbey/Tachyon Publications)
Stalking the Nightmare (1982)
Angry Candy (1988)
Mind Fields (1994) (33 stories inspired by the art of Jacek Yerka)
Slippage (1997)
Troublemakers (2001) (collection produced for the Young Adult market and featuring, for the most part, previously collected material)
Pulling a Train (2012)
Rough Beasts (2012)
Getting in the Wind (2013)
Honorable Whoredom at a Penny a Word (2013)
Again, Honorable Whoredom at a Penny a Word (2014, Edgeworks Abbey)
The Top of the Volcano: The Award-Winning Stories of Harlan Ellison (2014, Subterranean Press)
8 in 80 (2014)
Can & Can'tankerous (2015)
Harlan Ellison's Greatest Hits (2024) (posthumous short story collection, edited by J. Michael Straczynski)

Retrospectives and omnibus collections
Alone Against Tomorrow: a 10-Year Survey (1971) (published in the UK in two volumes as All the Sounds of Fear (1973) and The Time of the Eye (1974))
The Fantasies of Harlan Ellison (1979) (contains "Paingod and Other Delusions" (1965) and "I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream" (1967))
The Essential Ellison: a 35-Year Retrospective (1987) (edited by Terry Dowling with Richard Delap and Gil Lamont)
Dreams With Sharp Teeth (1991) (contains "I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream" (1967), Deathbird Stories (1975) and Shatterday (1980))
Edgeworks. 1 (1996) (contains "Over the Edge" (1970) and "An Edge in My Voice" (1985))
Edgeworks. 2 (1996) (contains "Spider Kiss" (1961) and "Stalking the Nightmare" (1982))
Edgeworks. 3 (1997) (contains "The Harlan Ellison Hornbook" (1990) and "Harlan Ellison's Movie" (1990))
Edgeworks. 4 (1997) (contains Love Ain't Nothing But Sex Misspelled (1968) and The Beast That Shouted Love at the Heart of the World (1969))
The Essential Ellison: a 50-Year Retrospective Revised & Expanded (2001) (edited by Terry Dowling with Richard Delap and Gil Lamont)
The Glass Teat Omnibus: The Glass Teat and The Other Glass Teat (2011) (published by Charnel House, a handmade book published in a very limited edition; includes a February 2011 audio recording of Ellison reading "Welcome to the Gulag", a new introduction written for this updated publication of his essays on and criticism of television.)
The Top of the Volcano: The Award-winning Stories of Harlan Ellison (2014)
Fingerprints On the Sky: The Authorized Harlan Ellison Bibliography, The Illustrated Reader's Guide edited by Tim Richmond (2015) Subterranean Press

Note
The White Wolf Edgeworks Series was originally scheduled to consist of 31 titles reprinted over the course of 20 omnibus volumes. Although an ISBN was created for Edgeworks. 5 (1998), which was to contain both Glass Teat books, this title never appeared. The series is notorious for its numerous typographical errors.

Nonfiction
Memos from Purgatory (1961)
The Glass Teat (1970) (essays of opinion on television, 1968–1970)
The Other Glass Teat (1975) (further essays of opinion on television, 1970–1972)
The Book of Ellison (1978) (edited by Andrew Porter)
Sleepless Nights in the Procrustean Bed (1984) (edited by Marty Clark)
An Edge in My Voice (1985)
Harlan Ellison's Watching (1989) (reissued 2008 by M Press)
The Harlan Ellison Hornbook (1990)
Harlan Ellison's Endlessly Watching (2014, Edgeworks Abbey)

Editorials
"Star Trek" (May 1987; The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction)
"The End of Horror" (January 1991; The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction)

Television plays
Published/produced screenplays and teleplays
The Oscar, with Clarence Greene and Russell Rouse, from the novel by Richard Sale.
Phoenix Without Ashes (original, unaired and unaltered, Writers Guild of America Award-winning teleplay), published in Faster Than Light (1975, Harper & Row), alongside original stories by George R.R. Martin and Ben Bova, and reprints by Isaac Asimov.
I, Robot (1994), (based on stories by Isaac Asimov, illustrated by Mark Zug)
The City on the Edge of Forever (1996), (Star Trek episode, original screenplay, with commentary. For an in-depth review of this book see. This script was also published in Six Science Fiction Plays (1976) edited by Roger Elwood)
Harlan Ellison's Movie (1990), (unproduced feature-length screenplay serialised in Ellison's weekly newspaper column The Harlan Ellison Hornbook and collected in the omnibus volume Edgeworks. 3 (1996))
Flintlock (unproduced Harlan Ellison teleplay) (1987), (unproduced pilot teleplay for a proposed 1972 TV series based on James Coburn's character in Our Man Flint, published in both editions of the retrospective volume The Essential Ellison (1987, 2001))
The Whimper of Whipped Dogs (1975), (teleplay produced in the TV series The Young Lawyers, serialised in Ellison's weekly newspaper column The Glass Teat and collected in The Other Glass Teat (1975); unrelated to Ellison's later 1973 short story, "The Whimper of Whipped Dogs")
The Whimper of Whipped Dogs (unfinished screenplay based on Ellison's 1973 short story of the same title as, but completely unrelated to the Young Lawyers teleplay referenced above; three treatments of the opening sequence were published in the June 1988 issue of The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction and later appeared in Harlan Ellison's Watching (1989))
Soldier, produced for The Outer Limits in 1964; published alongside the short story on which it was based in his 1967 collection From the Land of Fear.
Crazy as a Soup Sandwich, produced for The Twilight Zone in 1989; published in his 1997 collection Slippage.
Nackles, written for The Twilight Zone, an adaptation of a Donald E. Westlake story written, but never produced, in 1985, published in The Twilight Zone Magazine in 1986 and in a limited edition of Slippage which was published Mark Ziesing in 1997.
Memo from Purgatory, produced for The Alfred Hitchcock Hour in 1964, Soldier, produced for The Outer Limits in 1964, Demon With a Glass Hand, produced for The Outer Limits in 1964, Paladin of the Lost Hour, produced for The Twilight Zone in 1985, Crazy as a Soup Sandwich produced for The Twilight Zone in 1989, and The Face of Helene Bournouw, produced for The Hunger in 1998, were all published in Brain Movies: The Original Teleplays of Harlan Ellison, Volume One, published by Edgeworks Abbey/Publishing 180 in 2011.
Killing Bernstein, written, but unproduced, for Darkroom, 1982, Deeper Than the Darkness, retitled "A Knife in the Darkness", produced for Cimarron Strip in 1968, Mealtime, retitled "The Price of Doom", produced for Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea in 1964, The Sort of Do-It-Yourself Dreadful Affair, produced for The Man From U.N.C.L.E. in 1966, The Pieces of Fate Affair, produced for The Man From U.N.C.L.E. in 1967, and Phoenix Without Ashes, the pilot for The Starlost that was rewritten and retitled as "Voyage of Discovery", produced in 1973, are all collected in Brain Movies: The Original Teleplays of Harlan Ellison, Volume Two, published by Edgeworks Abbey/Publishing 180 in 2011.
None of the Above, an adaptation of the Norman Spinrad novel Bug Jack Barron, written for director Costa-Gavras in the early 1980s, published by Edgeworks Abbey in November 2012.
Cutter's World, an original, two-hour 1987 pilot teleplay for a western-tinged science fiction series for CBS, that was to have been directed by Roger Corman, Who Killed Alex Debbs?, a script that was produced for the hit 1960s show, Burke's Law, the initial outline for Demon with a Glass Hand, and The Ship That Kills, an unproduced story outline for a 1974–1975 Depression-era series called The Manhunter, starring Ken Howard, are collected in Brain Movies Vol. 3, published by Edgeworks Abbey and available from HarlanEllisonBooks.com.
Brillo, an unproduced, two-hour teleplay pilot, written in collaboration with Ben Bova, for ABC, Who Killed Purity Mather?, written and produced for Burke's Law, and Jeffrey's Being Quiet, written for Sixth Sense, are collected in Brain Movies Vol. 4, published by Edgeworks Abbey and available from HarlanEllisonBooks.com.
The Dark Forces, an unproduced pilot, written for NBC, Who Killed Andy Zygmunt?, written and produced for Burke's Law, Where Do the Elephants Go to Die?, written and produced for Ripcord, an unproduced teleplay for The Rat Patrol as well as outlines for Batman and Logan's Run are collected in Brain Movies Vol. 5, published by Edgeworks Abbey and available from HarlanEllisonBooks.com.
Brain Movies: The Original Teleplays of Harlan Ellison, Volume One (2013, Edgeworks Abbey)
Brain Movies: The Original Teleplays of Harlan Ellison, Volume Two (2013, Edgeworks Abbey)
Brain Movies: The Original Teleplays of Harlan Ellison, Volume Three (2013, Edgeworks Abbey)
Brain Movies: The Original Teleplays of Harlan Ellison, Volume Four (2013, Edgeworks Abbey)
Brain Movies: The Original Teleplays of Harlan Ellison, Volume Five (2013, Edgeworks Abbey)
See also The Starlost #1: Phoenix without Ashes (1975), the novelization by Edward Bryant of the teleplay for the pilot episode of The Starlost, which includes a lengthy afterword by Ellison describing what happened during production of the series.

Anthologies edited by
Dangerous Visions (1967) (also issued as a three-volume paperback edition)
Again, Dangerous Visions (1972) (also issued as a two-volume paperback edition)
Medea: Harlan's World (1985)
The Last Dangerous Visions (2024) (published posthumously)

Collections edited by
Nightshade and Damnations by Gerald Kersh (1968) (also introduction)
Jacques Futrelle's "The Thinking Machine": The Enigmatic Problems of Prof. Augustus S. F. X. Van Dusen, PhD, LL. D., F. R. S., M. D., M. D. S.  by Jacques Futrelle (2007 (also introduction)

Selected short stories
"A Boy and His Dog"
"Adrift Just Off the Islets of Langerhans: Latitude 38° 54' N, Longitude 77° 00' 13" W"
"The Beast that Shouted Love at the Heart of the World"
"The Deathbird"
"The Diagnosis of Dr. D'arqueAngel"
"The Dragon on the Bookshelf"
"From A to Z, in the Chocolate Alphabet"
"From A to Z, in the Sarsaparilla Alphabet". F&SF. 100 (2): 5–30. Feb 2001.
"Grail"
"I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream" – made into a CD-ROM PC video game I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream in 1995.
"Jeffty Is Five"
"Knox"
"The Prowler in the City at the Edge of the World"
""Repent, Harlequin!" Said the Ticktockman" – One of the most frequently reprinted stories in the English language and the second most frequently anthologized sf story
"Shatterday" – adapted as an episode of the 1980s revival of The Twilight Zone
"Shattered Like a Glass Goblin"
"Soldier From Tomorrow" – adapted by Ellison in his script for the Outer Limits episode "Soldier". The film The Terminator had sufficient similarities to the story that later prints of the film acknowledge Ellison.
"Try a Dull Knife"
"The Whimper of Whipped Dogs"
"How's the Night Life on Cissalda?"
"Paladin of the Lost Hour"
"The Man Who Rowed Christopher Columbus Ashore" – included in the Best American Short Stories anthology for 1993

Comics adaptations of works by Ellisons
Harlan Ellison's Dream Corridor, Vol. One, collecting the comic book series Dream Corridor, was published by Dark Horse Comics in 1996, artwork and adaptations by various artists and writers, and based on previously published short fiction by Ellison. Each issue had included one original short story.
Harlan Ellison's Dream Corridor, Vol. Two was published by Dark Horse Comics in association with Edgeworks Abbey, Ellison's own imprint, in 2007. Artwork and adaptations by various artists and based on previous short fiction. This contained material not originally published in the original Dream Corridor series.
Phoenix Without Ashes was published by IDW as a comic book.

Note
Stories originally contained in the Dream Corridor series, based on paintings by artists.

"Midnight in the Sunken Cathedral" (Paintings by Stephen Hickman and Michael Whelan)
"Pulling Hard Time" (Painting by Sam Raffa)
"Anywhere But Here, With Anyone But You" (Painting by Leo and Diane Dillon)
"Chatting with Anubis" (Painting by Jane McKenzie)
"The Museum on Cyclops Avenue" (Painting by Ron Brown)

Original graphic novels
Harlan Ellison's 7 Against Chaos, hardcover graphic novel by DC Comics, with illustrations by Paul Chadwick and coloring by Ken Steacy was published in July 2013 (based on Ellison's original treatment for the first Star Trek motion picture

Other comics
In addition to the many adaptations of Ellison's work, as well as original stories for the graphic novel format, Ellison also wrote superhero comic book scripts for Marvel Comics and DC Comics, and several stories for various other publishers' comic book anthology series.

DC Comics
Batman #237 (1971)
Detective Comics #567 (1986)

Marvel Comics
The Avengers #88, #101 (1971, 1972)
The Incredible Hulk #140 (1971)
Daredevil #208-209 (1984)
Heroes for Hope #1 (1985)

Video games
I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream

Memoirs
On an edition of Public Radio International's arts and culture series Studio 360 broadcast on May 30, 2008, Ellison announced that he had signed with a "major publisher" to produce his memoirs, under the tentative title Working Without a Net. That title first appeared  in the television show Babylon 5, for which Ellison was a creative consultant: in the episode "TKO" (originally broadcast in 1994), the fictional character Susan Ivanova is seen reading and laughing at a book entitled Working Without a Net by Harlan Ellison in 2258. Ultimately, Ellison chose author Nat Segaloff to write his biography and sat down for several hours of interviews, with the understanding that Ellison would have no veto over what would be in the book. That book, A Lit Fuse: The Provocative Life of Harlan Ellison, was published on July 14, 2017, by NESFA Press.

Current publications
The print-on-demand publishers Edgeworks Abbey and Open Road publish works by Ellison.
I Have No Mouth & I Must Scream was included in American Fantastic Tales, volume II (from the 1940s to now), edited by Peter Straub and published by the Library of America in 2009. The Best American Mystery Stories of the Century edited by Tony Hillerman and Otto Penzler (Houghton Mifflin, 2000) included Ellison's "The Whimper of Whipped Dogs."
In October 2010, a special hardcover collection Unrepentant: A Celebration of the Writings of Harlan Ellison (Garcia Publishing Services, 2010) was issued by MadCon, a convention in Wisconsin at which Ellison was the guest of honor. In addition to including "How Interesting: A Tiny Man" (previously published in "Realms of Fantasy" magazine,) it also included "'Repent, Harlequin! Said the Ticktockman", "Some Frightening Films of the Forties" (a never before reprinted essay,) an illustrated bibliography of Ellison's fiction books by Tim Richmond, an article by Robert T. and Frank Garcia on Ellisons television work, an appreciation/essay by Dark Horse Comics publisher Michael Richardson, an article about Deep Shag's audio recordings of Ellison speaking engagements by Michael Reed, a 6-page B&W gallery of covers by Leo and Diane Dillon, a two-page Neil Gaiman-drawn cartoon and an official biography.
In March 2011, Subterranean Press released an expanded edition of Deathbird Stories featuring new introductory material, new afterwords and three additional stories (the never-before-collected "From A to Z, in the Sarsaparilla Alphabet", together with "Scartaris, June 28th", and "The Man Who Rowed Christopher Columbus Ashore").
In November 2011, Edgeworks Abbey (Ellison's personal publishing arm) and Spectrum Fantastic, published a pocket-sized gift book entitled Bugf#ck: The Useless Wit & Wisdom of Harlan Ellison. It contains quotes on writing, sex, politics, love and war, as well as pertinent excerpts from his short stories, and a handful of personal photographs of the author. In December 2011, Edgeworks Abbey began publishing original collections and retrospectives in two different series: the Brain Movies series (which contain teleplays from Ellison's award-winning career as a screenwriter) and the Harlan 101 series (which contain reprints, and original, unpublished stories and essays, and serve as an introduction to Ellison's writings). December 1, 2011 saw the simultaneous publication of four books: Brain Movies: Volume One, Brain Movies: Volume Two, Harlan 101: Encountering Ellison, and The Sound of a Scythe and Three Brilliant Novellas.
In May 2012, Kicks Books published Pulling a Train, the first of two reprints of early writings by Ellison, originally published in pulp magazines and in paperbacks for the crime fiction market. Simultaneously, the publisher of "Deep Shag" Records released "On the Road With Ellison, Volume Six".
In October 2012, Kicks Books published Getting in the Wind, the second half of a reissue of stories originally published as Sex Gang, under Ellison's Paul Merchant pseudonym in the 1950s.
In November 2012, Edgeworks Abbey published None of the Above, an unproduced screenplay adaptation (written for director Costa-Gavras) of Norman Spinrad's novel, Bug Jack Barron, and Rough Beasts, seventeen never-before-collected pulp stories from the 1950s.
In April 2013, Hardcase Crime – publishers of original and reprint paperback crime fiction – published a reprint of Web of the City.
In May 2013, Edgeworks Abbey published Brain Movies: Volume Three and Brain Movies: Volume Four, two further collections of Ellison's teleplays, including two unproduced pilots.
In July 2013, DC Comics published, in hardcover, Harlan Ellison's 7 Against Chaos, illustrated by Paul Chadwick.
In November 2013, Edgeworks Abbey and HarlanEllisonbooks.com published, Brain Movies: Volume Five, including a treatment for an unproduced episode of Batman, an unproduced, original teleplay, "The Dark Forces", and several others. Also published was Honorable Whoredom at a Penny A Word which is another collection – similar to Getting in the Wind, etc. – that collects Ellison's older, earlier fiction, written when he was learning his craft. This book collects stories written for men's magazines, "confessionals" and other digests of the pulp era, such as "The Golden Virgin", "Scum Town" and "They Killed My Kid!".
Edgeworks Abbey released four volumes in 2014: 8 in 80 by Ellison edited by Susan Ellison, Again, Honorable Whoredom at a Penny a Word, Brain Movies: Volume Six, and Harlan Ellison's Endlessly Watching.
In 2014, Subterranean Press published The Top of the Volcano: The Award-Winning Stories of Harlan Ellison, collecting twenty-three of Ellison's Nebula, Hugo, Bram Stoker, Edgar, Best American Short Story and Locus-Award-winning short fiction.
In December 2015, Subterranean Press published Can & Can'tankerous, containing previously uncollected short stories by Harlan Ellison.

Voice acting
Audiobooks
Harlan! Harlan Ellison Reads Harlan Ellison – released 1976, Alternate World Recordings
Blood!: The Life and Future Times of Jack the Ripper – Alternate World Recordings, 1977
On the Road with Ellison Volume 1 – released 1983, reissued 2001 on Deep Shag Records
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas by Jules Verne – Dove Audio, 1996
The Titanic Disaster Hearings: The Official Transcripts of the 1912 Senate Investigation by Tom Kuntz (Audio Literature, June 1998)
Mars by Ben Bova, NewStar, 1999
Return to Mars by Ben Bova, NewStar, 1999
The Voice From the Edge, Vol.1: I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream – released 1999 on Fantastic Audio and Audible.com 2011
A Wizard of Earthsea by Ursula K. Le Guin, Audio Adventures, 2001
City of Darkness by Ben Bova, Fantastic Audio, 2001
The Voice From the Edge, Vol.2: Midnight in the Sunken Cathedral – released 2001 on Fantastic Audio, and Audible.com 2011
Demons by John Shirley – Recorded Books, 2002
Ender's Game by Orson Scott Card – Audio Renaissance, 2004
On the Road with Ellison Volume 2 – released 2004 on Deep Shag Records
The Stonehenge Gate by Jack Williamson – Blackstone Audio, January 2006
On the Road with Ellison Volume 3 – released 2007 on Deep Shag Records
Through the Looking-Glass by Lewis Carroll – Blackstone Audio, November 2008
The Voice From the Edge, Vol. 3: Pretty Maggie Moneyeyes – released 2009 on Blackstone Audio and Audible.com 2011
More Than Human by Theodore Sturgeon – Blackstone Audio, 2010
On the Road with Ellison Volume 4 – released 2010 on Deep Shag Records
On the Road with Ellison Volume 5 – released 2011 on Deep Shag Records
The Voice From the Edge, Vol. 4: The Deathbird & Other Stories – Audible.com 2011
The Voice From the Edge, Vol. 5: Shatterday & Other Stories – Audible.com 2011
On the Road with Ellison Volume 6 – released 2012 on Deep Shag Records
Honeymoon in Hell by Fredric Brown – Blackstone Audio, March 2014
Night Ride, and Other Journeys by Charles Beaumont – Blackstone Audio, April 2014
Untouched by Human Hands by Robert Sheckley – Blackstone Audio, March 2015
On the Road with Ellison Volume 7 – released 2018 on Deep Shag Records
On the Road with Ellison Volume 8 – released 2024 on Deep Shag Records

Television
Mother Goose and Grimm (1991–92)
The Pirates of Dark Water (1992–1993)
Phantom 2040, episode "A Boy and His Cat" (1994)
Space Cases (1996–97)
Babylon 5(1996–1998)
Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated, episodes "The Shrieking Madness" (2010) and "Come Undone" (2013) (as himself)
The Simpsons, episode "Married to the Blob" (2014) (as himself)

Documentary
In 2007, Dreams with Sharp Teeth received its first public screening at the Writers Guild Theatre in Los Angeles. The documentary about Ellison and his work was written and directed by Erik Nelson with archival footage of Ellison. It was released on DVD by New Video Group on May 26, 2009. Ellison's last public appearance in his hometown was in September 2007 for the Midwestern debut of the documentary at Cleveland Public Library.


--- Article 3 ---
Rape is a common topic in history and mythology. A list of notable survivors from history and mythology includes:

Ancient history
Boudica's two daughters, raped by Roman soldiers
Rogneda of Polotsk or Gorislava; according to the Suzdalian Chronicle sub anno 1128, raped by Vladimir, half-brother of her betrothed Yaropolk I of Kiev, in the presence of her parents (10th century)
A slave girl in Ibn Fadlan's account of a Norse funeral (c. 922), gang-raped and killed as part of a chief's funeral ritual
Li Zu'e, an empress who was raped by her brother-in-law and became pregnant
Artemisia Gentileschi (1593-c. 1656), Italian Baroque artist
Xenia Borisovna, Russian princess, forcibly taken as a concubine by False Dmitry I
Periander, tyrant of Corinth, was said to have experienced rape by deception from his mother.

Mythology
Greek mythology
Female
Alcippe a daughter of Ares; raped by Halirrhothius, the son of Poseidon.
Alcmene; raped by Zeus in form of her husband Amphitryon, resulting in the birth of Heracles.
Apemosyne; raped by Hermes, after slipping on skinned hides that he placed on her path.
Atalanta; attempted rape by the centaurs Rhoecus and Hylaios, both of whom she slew with her bow.
Auge; raped by Heracles.
Aura; raped by Dionysus while she was drunk.
Callisto; raped by Zeus in the form of Artemis or Apollo, resulting in the birth of Arcas.
Cassandra; raped by Ajax the Lesser during the Sack of Troy.
Chione; raped by Hermes in her sleep.
Cassiopeia; raped by Zeus in the form of her husband Phoenix.
Chalciope, abducted and raped by Heracles who planned an attack on Cos at night, killing her father Eurypylus, because he wanted her.
Danae; raped by Zeus in the form of golden rain, resulting in the birth of Perseus.
Demeter; only to a much later myth,(Arcadian myth, written around 2 AD) , Demeter was being pursued by her brother Poseidon, and she changed into a horse to escape him. Poseidon, however, transformed himself into a horse and, after cornering Demeter, raped his older sister, resulting in her giving birth to Despoina, a mysterious  goddess, and Arion, a divine horse.
Dryope; raped by Apollo in the form of a snake.
Europa; abducted by Zeus in the form of a white bull, then raped, resulting in the birth of Minos.
Halie; a Rhodian woman raped by her own sons.
Apemosyne, raped by Hermes and later on killed by her angry brother who though that she was lying about being molested by the god and he kicked her to death.
Harpalyce; raped by her own father Clymenus.
Hera; raped by her brother (and later husband) Zeus.
Io; pursued and eventually raped by Zeus, transformed into a heifer.
Leda, raped by Zeus in the form of a swan. This resulted in the birth of Helen of Troy and Polydeuces (Pollux).
Liriope; raped by the river god Cephissus, resulting in the birth of Narcissus.
Metis; pursued and eventually raped by her cousin (and later husband) Zeus, resulting in the eventual birth of Athena.
Nemesis; raped by Zeus, her first cousin once removed, who relentlessly pursued her, changing many forms. In some versions, Nemesis is the mother of Helen of Troy rather than Leda.
Nicaea; raped by Dionysus while she was unconscious.
Persephone; raped by her uncle Hades and in Orphic tradition by her father Zeus disguised as a snake or as Hades himself. This resulted in the birth of Zagreus and Melinoë.
Philomela; raped by her brother-in-law Tereus.
Procris; raped by Minos.
Rhea; raped by her son Zeus.
Tyro; raped by Poseidon in the form of her beloved, the river-god Enipeus.

Male
Adonis; in some versions, raped by Aphrodite.
Bellerophon; raped by (and later accused of doing the same by) Stheneboea.
Cephalus; raped by Eos
Chrysippus of Elis; raped by King Laius of Thebes, father of Oedipus by Jocasta.
Cinyras; raped by his daughter, Myrrha, via deception and alcohol.
Daphnis, son of Hermes; raped by Echenais, with the aid of wine.
Endymion; raped by Selene as he slept.
Ganymede; raped by Zeus
Hermaphroditos; raped by (and later merged with) the nymph Salmacis.
Hylas; raped by naiads.
Lyrcus, son of Phoroneus, raped by Hemithea, by means of alcohol.
Odysseus; in some versions, raped by Calypso on the island of Ogygia in his seven-year stay.
Silenus; raped by the cyclops Polyphemus.

Hebrew Bible
Dinah; raped by a Canaanite prince and avenged by her brothers.
Lot; raped by his daughters while under effect of alcohol, Genesis 19:30-38.
Tamar; raped by her half-brother Amnon and avenged by her brother Absalom.
Susanna;A Hebrew wife who was privately bathing, when two men spy upon her and try to extort her into have sexual relations with them, by making false allegations against her.

Norse mythology
Rindr; raped by Odin in Saxo Grammaticus' version of the engendering of Baldr's avenger

Roman mythology
Lucretia; raped by a prince, Sextus Tarquinius.
The Sabine women; raped by the founders of Rome
Rhea Silvia, raped by Mars.
Medusa; raped by Neptune in Minerva's temple, as the rape happens only in Ovid's version.
Lara; raped by Mercury as he escorted her to the Underworld.
Caeneus; formerly known as Caenis raped by Neptune only in Ovid's version.
Endymion; raped by Selene while he was sleeping.

Knights of the Round Table
Lancelot; Elaine of Corbenic posed as Guinevere to perform a rape by deception upon him.
Igraine; Uther Pendragon posed as her husband Duke Gorlois of Cornwall to perform a rape by deception on her, leading to the birth of King Arthur.
King Arthur; Morgause, his half-sister, posed as his wife Guinevere, to perform a rape by deception on him, leading to the birth of Mordred.

Jewish mythology
Adam; raped by Lilith after his fall. Out of revenge for trying to dominate her. Resulting in the creation of lilins

See also
Sexual consent


--- Article 4 ---
Mettray Penal Colony, situated in the small village of Mettray, in the French département of Indre-et-Loire, just north of the city of Tours, was a private reformatory, without walls, opened in 1840 for the rehabilitation of young male delinquents aged between 6 and 21.  At that time, children and adolescents were normally imprisoned together with adults.  Aspects of the progressive way in which the Colony was organized anticipated the English borstal system established at the beginning of the 20th century.

History
Frédéric-Auguste Demetz (1796–1873), a penal reformer and lawyer at the French Royal Court, together with the architect Guillaume-Abel Blouet (1795–1853), toured the United States together in 1836 to study American prison architecture and administration for the French government. Today Blouet is probably best known as the architect who completed the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. Upon Blouet's return to Paris he devoted himself to the reform of prison design and in 1838 was appointed Inspector General of French Prisons. Blouet believed in using architecture to realize social reform and together with Demetz worked on the design and layout of the buildings for the Colony which was initially directed by Demetz after its opening in July 1839. It was noted as being officially opened on 22 January 1840.

Layout
The layout of the Colony was characterised by a sense of order and community. From the entrance to the Colony a large central square, dominated symbolically by a chapel on one side, lies at the end of a long tree-lined avenue. The entrance to the square has the director's house on one side and the preparatory school, where the instructors were trained, on the other. Ten identical, three-storey pavilions are arranged on the two sides of the square. These were referred to as houses and were the places where the boys lived and worked.  There were workshops on the ground floor where the boys who did not work in the fields learnt a trade. The first floor functioned as a dormitory at night, with the boys sleeping in hammocks, and as a refectory during the day time. The second floor contained a separate dormitory for the younger children.
Each house was occupied by a family of 40 boys under the supervision of a young man (chef de famille) and his assistant (sous chef) specially chosen by Demetz and trained at the Colony's own preparatory school. The Colony was deliberately organised to imitate the structure of a family because it was felt that the failure of the boys' biological families was the reason for them to be sent to Mettray. Besides the pavilions there were flower gardens, accommodation for visitors, stables, a farm with animals and extensive cultivated fields, and a quarry. A replica of a sailing ship, complete with masts and rigging, was set in the square and used for training boys, many of whom would enter the navy on leaving Mettray. There were around 400 inmates in total and the Colony was largely self-sufficient.

Formative years
Demetz believed in the healing properties of nature and his motto was ameliorer l'homme par la terre et la terre par l'homme, sous le regard de Dieu which translated means improve man by the land and the land by man, under the watch of God. The Colony's mission was to reform, through manual agricultural work and through prayer, the young inmates; many of whom had already been corrupted by their stay in traditional prisons.  At first the Colony thrived and Demetz's work attracted favorable notice in England, and following the passage of the first Youthful Offenders Act (1854), which greatly stimulated the building of reform and industrial schools, he became the hero of the British philanthropic world.  A number of similar penal colonies, modelled on Mettray, were established in other countries including Poland, the Nederlandsche Mettray (by William Suringar) in the Netherlands and the Philanthropic Society's Farm School for Boys at Redhill, Surrey, in England.
The boys had their heads shaved, wore uniforms, and up to the age of 12 spent most of the day studying arithmetic, writing and reading. The older boys had just one hour of classes and the rest of the day was spent working. Some were employed in trades, or in the orchards and vineyards, but the majority performed hard agricultural labour including digging and crushing stones for roads. The work was hard, the food mediocre and any misdeeds were severely punished.  This discipline could not, however, prevent the vices encouraged by the overcrowded conditions in which the boys lived.
Apart from the reformatory for boys who were mostly deprived, disadvantaged or abandoned children, many of whom had committed only petty crimes, there was a separate institution, the Maison Paternelle, where wealthy families paid to have their wayward children looked after. The writer Jules Verne sent his son Michel to Mettray for a period of 6 months in 1876.

Decline
In his book The Miracle of the Rose (1946), the French writer Jean Genet described his experience of nearly three years of detention in the Colony (between 2 September 1926 and 1 March 1929) which ended when he joined the Foreign Legion at age 18. In the 1920s Mettray was no longer the radical liberal institution run by Demetz, who had died in 1873, and was now widely criticized for its harsh discipline.
This criticism, combined with financial problems, led to the Colony's closure in 1937, by which time more than 17,000 boys had passed its doors, and it had become the most well-known institution of its kind.
The site is still accessible to visitors at 47°26′57″N 0°39′31″E

Mettray in Discipline and Punish
Mettray Penal colony has become more than just a model prison for boys in the work of Michel Foucault. In Discipline and Punish Foucault denotes the opening of Mettray prison as the most significant change in the modern status of prisons. He writes: "Were I to fix the date of completion of the carceral system... [t]he date I would choose would be 22 January 1840, the date of the official opening of Mettray. Or better still, perhaps, that glorious day, unremarked and unrecorded, when a child in Mettray remarked as he lay dying: 'What a pity I left the colony so soon'." Mettray became the focal point for Foucault because of the various systems and expressions of power which it exhibited, something which became very important for the investigations of Michel Foucault in his works. The precursors to his works can be seen in the structures inherent in Mettray. Despite its relatively unremarkable place in penal lore, this notation by Foucault sets Mettray apart from many other prisons. For if Foucault is to be believed, it was at this French penal colony where began our descent into modern penal theories and the inherent power structures they entail.

See also
Timeline of children's rights in the United Kingdom

References
Further reading
Matthew Davenport Hill, Mettray, (1855)
Jean Genet, The Miracle of the Rose, trans. by Bernard Frechtman (London: Blond, 1965).
Luc Forlivesi, Georges-François Pottier and Sophie Chassat, Educate & Punish: the agricultural penal colony of Mettray (1839–1937) (in French), Presses universitaires de Rennes, October 2005.
Murray, Patrick Joseph Reformatory Schools in France and England, 1854. Author describes and recommends aspects of system at Mettray be adopted in the United Kingdom.

External links
 Media related to Colonie agricole et pénitentiaire de Mettray at Wikimedia Commons


--- Article 5 ---
Sabir Medgidovich Gusein-Zade (Russian: Сабир Меджидович Гусейн-Заде; born 29 July 1950 in Moscow) is a Russian mathematician and a specialist in singularity theory and its applications.
He studied at Moscow State University, where he earned his Ph.D. in 1975 under the joint supervision of Sergei Novikov and Vladimir Arnold. Before entering the university, he had earned a gold medal at the International Mathematical Olympiad.
Gusein-Zade co-authored with V. I. Arnold and A. N. Varchenko the textbook Singularities of Differentiable Maps (published in English by Birkhäuser).
A professor in both the Moscow State University and the Independent University of Moscow, Gusein-Zade also serves as co-editor-in-chief for the Moscow Mathematical Journal. He shares credit with Norbert A'Campo for results on the singularities of plane curves.

Selected publications
S. M. Gusein-Zade. "Dynkin diagrams for singularities of functions of two variables". Functional Analysis and Its Applications, 1974, Volume 8, Issue 4, pp. 295–300.
S. M. Gusein-Zade. "Intersection matrices for certain singularities of functions of two variables". Functional Analysis and Its Applications, 1974, Volume 8, Issue 1, pp. 10–13.
A. Campillo, F. Delgado, and S. M. Gusein-Zade. "The Alexander polynomial of a plane curve singularity via the ring of functions on it". Duke Mathematical Journal, 2003, Volume 117, Number 1, pp. 125–156.
S. M. Gusein-Zade. "The problem of choice and the optimal stopping rule for a sequence of independent trials". Theory of Probability & Its Applications, 1965, Volume 11, Number 3, pp. 472–476.
S. M. Gusein-Zade. "A new technique for constructing continuous cartograms". Cartography and Geographic Information Systems, 1993, Volume 20, Issue 3, pp. 167–173.

References
External links
Sabir Gusein-Zade's results at International Mathematical Olympiad
